README.md, before:

# The science of accelerated playback

**TL;DR: faster playback translates to better engagement and retention.**

Average adult reads prose text at
[250 to 300 words per minute](http://www.paperbecause.com/PIOP/files/f7/f7bb6bc5-2c4a-466f-9ae7-b483a2c0dca4.pdf)
(wpm). By contrast, the average rate of speech for English speakers is ~150 wpm,
with slide presentations often closer to 100 wpm. As a result, when given the
choice, many viewers
[speed up video playback to ~1.3\~1.5 its recorded rate](http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/um/redmond/groups/coet/compression/chi99/paper.pdf)
to compensate for the difference.

Many viewers report that
[accelerated viewing keeps their attention longer](http://www.enounce.com/docs/BYUPaper020319.pdf):
faster delivery keeps the viewer more engaged with the content. In fact, with a
little training many end up watching videos at 2x+ the recorded speed. Some
studies report that after being exposed to accelerated playback,
[listeners become uncomfortable](http://alumni.media.mit.edu/~barons/html/avios92.html#beasleyalteredspeech)
if they are forced to return to normal rate of presentation.

## Faster HTML5 Video

HTML5 video provides a native API to accelerate playback of any video. The
problem is, many players either hide, or limit this functionality. For best
results playback speed adjustments should be easy and frequent to match the pace
and content being covered: we don't read at a fixed speed, and similarly, we
need an easy way to accelerate the video, slow it down, and quickly rewind the
last point to listen to it a few more times.

![Player](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/2400185/24076745/5723e6ae-0c41-11e7-820c-1d8e814a2888.png)

### _[Install Chrome Extension](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/video-speed-controller/nffaoalbilbmmfgbnbgppjihopabppdk)_

\*\* Once the extension is installed simply navigate to any page that offers
HTML5 video ([example](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E9FxNzv1Tr8)), and you'll
see a speed indicator in top left corner. Hover over the indicator to reveal the
controls to accelerate, slowdown, and quickly rewind or advance the video. Or,
even better, simply use your keyboard:

- **S** - decrease playback speed.
- **D** - increase playback speed.
- **R** - reset playback speed to 1.0x.
- **Z** - rewind video by 10 seconds.
- **X** - advance video by 10 seconds.
- **G** - toggle between current and user configurable preferred speed.
- **V** - show/hide the controller.

You can customize and reassign the default shortcut keys in the extensions
settings page, as well as add additional shortcut keys to match your
preferences. For example, you can assign multiple different "preferred speed"
shortcuts with different values, which will allow you to quickly toggle between
your most commonly used speeds. To add a new shortcut, open extension settings
and click "Add New".

![settings Add New shortcut](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/121805/50726471-50242200-1172-11e9-902f-0e5958387617.jpg)

Some sites may assign other functionality to one of the assigned shortcut keys —
these collisions are inevitable, unfortunately. As a workaround, the extension
listens both for lower and upper case values (i.e. you can use
`Shift-<shortcut>`) if there is other functionality assigned to the lowercase
key. This is not a perfect solution, as some sites may listen to both, but works
most of the time.

### FAQ

**The video controls are not showing up?** This extension is only compatible
with HTML5 video. If you don't see the controls showing up, chances are you are
viewing a Flash video. If you want to confirm, try right-clicking on the video
and inspect the menu: if it mentions flash, then that's the issue. That said,
most sites will fallback to HTML5 if they detect that Flash it not available.
You can try manually disabling Flash plugin in Chrome:

- In a new tab, navigate to `chrome://settings/content/flash`
- Disable "Allow sites to run Flash"
- Restart your browser and try playing your video again

**The speed controls are not showing up for local videos?** To enable playback
of local media (e.g. File > Open File), you need to grant additional permissions
to the extension.

- In a new tab, navigate to `chrome://extensions`
- Find "Video Speed Controller" extension in the list and enable "Allow access
  to file URLs"
- Open a new tab and try opening a local file, the controls should show up

### License

(MIT License) - Copyright (c) 2014 Ilya Grigorik

Commit message:

Kinda explained what I want to do with this project
Just so that I did not forget in the future

README.md, after:

# The science of accelerated playback

### Literally Just a Note to Myself of What I Want to Do

So, there is this great program called [jumpcutter](https://github.com/carykh/jumpcutter.git). The only issue with it is it is slow. It just splits the video into segments and then goes from there. I want to expand upon this video speed player, and try to use the native HTML5 API to speed up or slow down video and audio playback. This will allow for the faster ingestation of content without taking hours to render. 

**TL;DR: faster playback translates to better engagement and retention.**

Average adult reads prose text at
[250 to 300 words per minute](http://www.paperbecause.com/PIOP/files/f7/f7bb6bc5-2c4a-466f-9ae7-b483a2c0dca4.pdf)
(wpm). By contrast, the average rate of speech for English speakers is ~150 wpm,
with slide presentations often closer to 100 wpm. As a result, when given the
choice, many viewers
[speed up video playback to ~1.3\~1.5 its recorded rate](http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/um/redmond/groups/coet/compression/chi99/paper.pdf)
to compensate for the difference.

Many viewers report that
[accelerated viewing keeps their attention longer](http://www.enounce.com/docs/BYUPaper020319.pdf):
faster delivery keeps the viewer more engaged with the content. In fact, with a
little training many end up watching videos at 2x+ the recorded speed. Some
studies report that after being exposed to accelerated playback,
[listeners become uncomfortable](http://alumni.media.mit.edu/~barons/html/avios92.html#beasleyalteredspeech)
if they are forced to return to normal rate of presentation.

## Faster HTML5 Video

HTML5 video provides a native API to accelerate playback of any video. The
problem is, many players either hide, or limit this functionality. For best
results playback speed adjustments should be easy and frequent to match the pace
and content being covered: we don't read at a fixed speed, and similarly, we
need an easy way to accelerate the video, slow it down, and quickly rewind the
last point to listen to it a few more times.

![Player](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/2400185/24076745/5723e6ae-0c41-11e7-820c-1d8e814a2888.png)

### _[Install Chrome Extension](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/video-speed-controller/nffaoalbilbmmfgbnbgppjihopabppdk)_

\*\* Once the extension is installed simply navigate to any page that offers
HTML5 video ([example](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E9FxNzv1Tr8)), and you'll
see a speed indicator in top left corner. Hover over the indicator to reveal the
controls to accelerate, slowdown, and quickly rewind or advance the video. Or,
even better, simply use your keyboard:

- **S** - decrease playback speed.
- **D** - increase playback speed.
- **R** - reset playback speed to 1.0x.
- **Z** - rewind video by 10 seconds.
- **X** - advance video by 10 seconds.
- **G** - toggle between current and user configurable preferred speed.
- **V** - show/hide the controller.

You can customize and reassign the default shortcut keys in the extensions
settings page, as well as add additional shortcut keys to match your
preferences. For example, you can assign multiple different "preferred speed"
shortcuts with different values, which will allow you to quickly toggle between
your most commonly used speeds. To add a new shortcut, open extension settings
and click "Add New".

![settings Add New shortcut](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/121805/50726471-50242200-1172-11e9-902f-0e5958387617.jpg)

Some sites may assign other functionality to one of the assigned shortcut keys —
these collisions are inevitable, unfortunately. As a workaround, the extension
listens both for lower and upper case values (i.e. you can use
`Shift-<shortcut>`) if there is other functionality assigned to the lowercase
key. This is not a perfect solution, as some sites may listen to both, but works
most of the time.

### FAQ

**The video controls are not showing up?** This extension is only compatible
with HTML5 video. If you don't see the controls showing up, chances are you are
viewing a Flash video. If you want to confirm, try right-clicking on the video
and inspect the menu: if it mentions flash, then that's the issue. That said,
most sites will fallback to HTML5 if they detect that Flash it not available.
You can try manually disabling Flash plugin in Chrome:

- In a new tab, navigate to `chrome://settings/content/flash`
- Disable "Allow sites to run Flash"
- Restart your browser and try playing your video again

**The speed controls are not showing up for local videos?** To enable playback
of local media (e.g. File > Open File), you need to grant additional permissions
to the extension.

- In a new tab, navigate to `chrome://extensions`
- Find "Video Speed Controller" extension in the list and enable "Allow access
  to file URLs"
- Open a new tab and try opening a local file, the controls should show up

### License

(MIT License) - Copyright (c) 2014 Ilya Grigorik
